Collapse API providers tables (#1411)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/data/apis/api-providers.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 60
title: Providers
---

:::info

> On August 1, 2024, the SDF truncated historical data on its Horizon instances to one year. This update allows us to optimize performance and ensure a streamlined experience for all users. We encourage you to explore third-party ecosystem providers of Horizon, which may provide a longer history retention window as well as other features.

Reviewer: Suggest removing the mix of third party and first party statements, and keep it all focused on the topic rather than on us:
```suggestion
On August 1, 2024, the SDF truncated historical data on its Horizon instances to one year. This update allows optimizes the performance of the SDF hosted Horizon and ensures a streamlined experience for all users of the publicly available API. Consider third-party ecosystem providers of Horizon, which may provide a longer history retention window as well as other features.
```

:::

Multiple infrastructure providers have made Stellar RPC and Horizon services available, and offer plans ranging from free to dedicated instances. These providers can be used for development, testing, and production.

> These providers allow access to the Testnet network and Mainnet network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These providers allow access to the Futurenet network, Testnet network, and Mainnet network.
```

| [GetBlock](https://getblock.io/nodes/xlm/) | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |
| [Nodies](https://nodies.org) | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |

\*_Blockdaemon, Validation Cloud, and Quicknode combine Horizon and RPC in the same endpoint._

†_Blockdaemon and Validation Cloud provide full historical data for Horizon._

### Publicly Accessible APIs

| Provider | Futurenet RPC | Testnet RPC | Mainnet RPC | Futurenet Horizon | Testnet Horizon | Mainnet Horizon |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Liquify](https://www.liquify.io/) | ✅ [Link](https://stellar.liquify.com/api=41EEWAH79Y5OCGI7/futurenet) | ✅ [Link](https://stellar.liquify.com/api=41EEWAH79Y5OCGI7/testnet) | ✅ [Link](https://stellar-mainnet.liquify.com/api=41EEWAH79Y5OCGI7/mainnet) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [Gateway](https://gateway.fm/) | ❌ | ✅ [Link](https://soroban-rpc.testnet.stellar.gateway.fm) | ✅ [Link](https://soroban-rpc.mainnet.stellar.gateway.fm) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [sorobanrpc.com](https://sorobanrpc.com/) | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ [Link](https://mainnet.sorobanrpc.com) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| [Nodies](https://nodies.org) | ❌ | ✅ [Link](https://stellar-soroban-testnet-public.nodies.app) | ✅ [Link](https://stellar-soroban-public.nodies.app) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |

> | [SDF](http://www.stellar.org) | ✅ [Link](https://rpc-futurenet.stellar.org) | ✅ [Link](https://soroban-testnet.stellar.org) | ❌ | ✅ [Link](https://horizon-futurenet.stellar.org) | ✅ [Link](https://horizon-testnet.stellar.org) | ❌ |

Reviewer 2: nit: Is there a way to make the links look nicer?
<img width="652" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/464d85b8-8127-42f1-b87a-be03640b99da" />

nit: Is there a way to make these two headers for the two tables the same?
<img width="590" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a76f6d78-ba89-42c5-bf2d-9c2298cd0744" />

Author: > nit: Is there a way to make the links look nicer?
 
I agree this looks kinda ugly but I wasn't sure if other options were better. I can make the emoji's themselves links, but in that case it's not really clear that they _are_ links. 

> nit: Is there a way to make these two headers for the two tables the same?

Unfortunately not, but the other alternative I tried was just Futurenet/Testnet/Mainnet columns and then named links inside the cells. This futzes around with the widths of the cells and makes them look more uneven. In short, it's also ugly but in a different way. I'm open to other ideas

Author: This is maybe the best better option to achieve both

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b181f562-a836-440a-8a0d-c518f9ed1115)
